NATIONAL INSTRUMENTS SOFTWARE LICENSE AGREEMENT CAREFULLY READ THIS 
SOFTWARE LICENSE AGREEMENT ("AGREEMENT"). BY DOWNLOADING THE SOFTWARE 
AND/OR CLICKING THE APPLICABLE BUTTON TO COMPLETE THE INSTALLATION 
PROCESS, YOU AGREE TO BE BOUND BY THE TERMS OF THIS AGREEMENT. IF YOU DO 
NOT WISH TO BECOME A PARTY TO THIS AGREEMENT AND BE BOUND BY ITS TERMS 
AND CONDITIONS, DO NOT INSTALL OR USE THE SOFTWARE, AND RETURN THE 
SOFTWARE (WITH ALL ACCOMPANYING WRITTEN MATERIALS AND THEIR CONTAINERS) 
WITHIN THIRTY (30) DAYS OF RECEIPT. ALL RETURNS TO NI WILL BE SUBJECT TO 
NI'S THEN-CURRENT RETURN POLICY. If you are accepting these terms on 
behalf of an entity, you agree that you have authority to bind the 
entity to these terms. The terms of this Agreement apply to the computer 
software provided with this Agreement, all updates or upgrades to the 
software that may be provided later by NI as part of any maintenance, 
technical support, or other services program for the software, unless 
such update or upgrade comes with separate software license terms, and 
all accompanying documentation, utilities, and Driver Interface Software 
(collectively "Software" or "SOFTWARE"). Software does not include 
certain third party software that NI provides to you but that is subject 
to separate license terms either presented at the time of installation 
or otherwise provided with the Software ("Third Party Software"), and 
Software does not include Source Code, which is defined in and licensed 
pursuant to the terms set forth in Addendum A – Source Code License. 1. 
Grant of License; Restrictions A. In consideration of, and conditioned 
upon, your payment of any applicable fees to NI and subject to the terms 
set forth in this Agreement, National Instruments Corporation or 
National Instruments Ireland Resources Ltd. ("NI"), as applicable 
depending on the country of manufacture, hereby grants you a limited, 
revocable, non-exclusive right and license to use the Software only in 
the specific configuration allowed by the license type identified in the 
applicable documentation provided by NI to you. Unless otherwise 
provided in this Agreement or in the applicable documentation provided 
by NI to you, the applicable license type is a named user license and 
the term of the license, if purchased and not evaluation, is perpetual 
and not term. With the exception of Authorized Applications (as 
hereinafter defined), the Software is for your internal use only. B. 
Restrictions. You must not violate any applicable laws in your use of 
the Software. Unless and only to the extent that this Agreement 
expressly permits, you must not (i) modify or create derivatives of the 
Software; (ii) install or use the Software in a floating, concurrent, or 
any other shared context; (iii) distribute or otherwise make the 
Software or any password, key, or other access code for the Software 
available to any third party; (iv) reverse engineer, decompile, or 
disassemble the Software, unless and only to the extent that applicable 
law expressly prohibits this restriction; (v) defeat or work around any 
access restrictions or encryption in the Software, unless and only to 
the extent that applicable law expressly prohibits this restriction; 
(vi) sublicense, lease, lend, or rent the Software; (vii) remove, 
minimize, block, or modify any titles, logos, trademarks, copyright and 
patent notices, digital watermarks, disclaimers, or other legal notices 
that are included in the Software, whether or not they are NI or a third 
party's; (viii) cause any of the Software, including any Software 
included in an Authorized Application, to become subject to a license 
that requires, as a condition of use, modification, or distribution, 
that (a) code subject to the license be disclosed or distributed in 
source code form or (b) others have the right to modify or create 
derivative works of the code subject to the license; or (ix) use any 
Software scripting functionality to create an application that performs 
the functionality of an editor for a graphical programming environment. 
C. Your use of the Software must also be in accordance with the 
applicable documentation that accompanies the Software and not in any 
manner that circumvents or is intended to circumvent such documentation 
or the intent of this Agreement. D. You may make a reasonable number of 
copies of the Software solely for backup or archival purposes and a 
reasonable number of copies of the documentation that accompanies the 
Software solely for your internal use in connection with your use of the 
Software. 2. License Types Named User License. If you have acquired a 
named user license, you may install the Software on up to three (3) 
computers in a single workplace of one (1) individual you designate and 
register with NI ("Named User"). For the purposes of this Agreement, a 
computer will be one computing device or, if the Software is being used 
in connection with a virtual machine, one virtual machine on a computing 
device. The Named User must be identified in writing through the NI 
registration process. Only the Named User may use or otherwise run the 
Software, and the Software may not be run on more than one computer at a 
time. You may not share access to the installed Software over a network 
such that the installed Software can be run by a different user. You may 
change the Named User to another designated employee provided that each 
new named user license is registered with NI; no more than four (4) such 
changes may occur per calendar year. At your discretion, you may convert 
a named user license to a computer-based license. Computer-Based 
License. If you have acquired a computer-based license, you may install 
the Software on one (1) computer in your workplace. For the purposes of 
this Agreement, a computer will be one computing device or, if the 
Software is being used in connection with a virtual machine, one virtual 
machine on a computing device. There is no limitation on the number of 
your employees that may access and use the Software installed on such 
computer. All of the Software must be installed and used on the same 
computer. You may not share access to the installed Software over a 
network such that the installed Software can be run on a different 
computer. You may change the designated computer to another computer 
within the applicable single workplace, provided that none of the 
Software remains installed on the previous designated computer; no more 
than four (4) such changes may occur per calendar year. Home Usage 
Exception. If you are a business or other entity, the designated Named 
User for the applicable license or, in the case of a computer-based 
license, the single individual who is the primary user of the single 
computer on which the Software is installed and used, may also install 
and use the Software on one (1) computer located in such user's home, 
provided that the use of the Software on such home computer is limited 
to work performed in the scope of such person's employment with you and 
complies with all terms and conditions of this Agreement. The Software 
must be promptly uninstalled from the individual's home computer upon 
the earlier of the underlying license's expiration or termination date 
or the date the individual's authority to use the Software pursuant to 
the underlying license terminates. 3. Additional Terms. You may have 
additional rights and obligations to the Software through special 
license types and license programs, as set forth in addenda to this 
Agreement and which are incorporated as part of this Agreement. 
Additional product-specific provisions may be provided in a specific 
Product Addendum to this Agreement for the relevant product and the 
terms of which are incorporated into this Agreement. In the event of a 
conflict between an addendum and the other terms set forth in this 
Agreement, the terms of the addendum will control. Addendum A Source 
Code License Addendum B Special License Types Evaluation License; 
Pre-Release Software Compile-Only License (Measurement Studio) Driver 
Interface Software Multiple Access License (NI-488.2 Software for 
GPIB-ENET) Concurrent Use License Debug License Addendum C Volume 
License Program Terms Addendum D Enterprise Program Terms Addendum E 
Academic License Terms Addendum F Product-Specific Provisions 
(TestStand, Measurement Studio) 4. Third Party Contractors. Your third 
party contractors may access and use the Software, provided that they do 
so solely for your benefit, they agree to use the Software solely in 
accordance with the terms of this Agreement, and you agree to remain 
liable to NI for any breach by your contractors of this Agreement. 5. 
Software Services. This Agreement does not entitle you to any upgrades 
or maintenance, technical, or other services for the Software ("Software 
Services"), which you may be required to purchase separately. 6. License 
Term; Termination and Expiration A. Term Licenses. If you have purchased 
a term license, the term of the license will commence on the date of 
your order and, unless terminated pursuant to the provisions herein, 
continues for the period of time specified in the product description or 
other applicable documentation provided to you by NI. The license will 
expire automatically at the end of such term. B. Perpetual Licenses. If 
you have purchased a license and the license is specified as "perpetual" 
or no period of time is specified in the product description or other 
applicable documentation provided to you by NI, your license will be 
perpetual and, unless terminated pursuant to the provisions herein, you 
have the right to use the Software indefinitely. C. Termination. NI 
conditions its license grant on you complying with the terms set forth 
in this Agreement, and this Agreement will automatically terminate, 
immediately and without prior notice, if you fail to comply with its 
terms. D. Effect of Termination or Expiration. Upon termination or 
expiration of this Agreement, regardless of the reason, the license 
grants contained herein will terminate and you must immediately cease 
all use of the Software, cease all distribution of Authorized 
Applications, and destroy all copies of the Software; provided, however, 
you must deliver the Software and all copies to NI if NI has so demanded 
in lieu of any destruction. Sections 11, 15, 16, 17, 19, 20, 21, 22.A., 
and 23 of this Agreement will survive any expiration or termination of 
this Agreement. 7. Transfer. You may transfer a named user license or 
computer-based license to a third party in the same country in which you 
purchased the license, or within the European Union if you purchased the 
license in the European Union, provided that (i) you notify NI in 
writing of such transfer, including the name and location of such third 
party; (ii) such third party accepts the terms and conditions of this 
Agreement; and (iii) after such transfer you do not retain any copies of 
the Software or any of the written materials accompanying the Software. 
NI may, in its discretion, charge you a fee for the license transfer. 
8. Upgrades; Prior Versions. If the Software is an upgrade, you may only 
use the Software if you have a valid license to use the prior version of 
the Software, and you may not use both the upgrade and the prior version 
of the Software concurrently. You may elect to use a prior version of 
any Software delivered and licensed under this Agreement in lieu of 
using the Software delivered and licensed under this Agreement 
("Delivered Software"), provided (i) you have an authorized copy of the 
prior version of the Delivered Software; (ii) all use is pursuant to and 
in accordance with this Agreement; and (iii) notwithstanding anything in 
this Agreement to the contrary, in no event will NI be required to 
support any version of the Software, including providing applicable 
software key codes or hardware keys, other than the then most current 
version of the Delivered Software. 9. Multiple Versions. If NI 
distributes the Software on installation media containing multiple 
versions of the Software for use with different operating systems or 
makes the same available through download, you may use only one version 
of the Software. 10. Software/Hardware Key; Prior Access. You agree to 
use any software key codes or hardware keys provided by NI solely with 
the Software for which it is provided. While NI may in its sole 
discretion provide you with the applicable key or other access to use 
the Software prior to receipt from you of the applicable license fees, 
you will remain obligated to pay such fees to NI. 11. Copyright; No 
Other Licenses. The Software is licensed and not sold. The Software, all 
copies of the Software, related contents, and all rights therein, are 
owned by NI or its suppliers and are protected by applicable copyright 
laws and international treaty provisions. All rights not expressly 
granted to you in this Agreement are reserved to NI. Further, and 
without limiting the foregoing, no license or any right of any kind, 
whether by express license, implied license, the doctrine of exhaustion, 
or otherwise, is granted under any NI patents (whether identified herein 
or not) or other intellectual property right of NI with respect to any 
other product of NI or of any third party, including the right to use 
any such other product. 12. Application Deployment A. An "Authorized 
Application" is (i) an application that you create with a development 
version of the Software; (ii) an application that you create with third 
party software using real-time operating system components of the 
LabVIEW Real-Time Module and the LabWindows/CVI Real-Time Module in 
accordance with the licenses for such modules; or (iii) an application 
that you create with a third party software development environment that 
utilizes Driver Interface Software, if such software development 
environment is supported by such Driver Interface Software as indicated 
in the applicable documentation for such Driver Interface Software. 
"Driver Interface Software" means computer software and other code 
provided with this Agreement that are listed as hardware drivers or 
device drivers on NI's hardware driver listing web page, which is 
currently located at www.ni.com/driverinterfacesoftware, or that are 
added by NI at any time to such listing or any similar successor 
listings, together with all accompanying documentation and utilities. In 
no event, however, will the term "Driver Interface Software" ever 
include any Third Party Software, operating system software, instrument 
driver software, application software, toolkits, modules, driver 
development kit (DDK) or portion thereof, software development kit (SDK) 
or portion thereof, module development kit (MDK) or portion thereof, or 
any software or other code designated by NI as being any of the 
foregoing; or any of the foregoing's accompanying documentation or 
utilities. B. Deployment and Distribution Requirements. You may 
distribute, deploy, or otherwise make available Authorized Applications, 
along with applicable runtime engines for the Software and applicable 
Driver Interface Software that you may include as part of or together 
with your Authorized Applications, provided that you comply with each of 
the requirements set forth below. (i) You must include the following 
copyright notice in the Authorized Application's About Box (if 
applicable) and in any applicable written documentation or, if no such 
documentation exists, in a "read me" or other .txt file distributed with 
each copy of the Authorized Application. "Copyright © [insert year] 
National Instruments Corporation. All Rights Reserved." You may instead, 
or in addition, include your own copyright notice with the notice 
required above, but in no event may you remove or alter any copyright, 
patent, trademark, or other legal notices or disclaimers that exist in 
the Software and with respect to any runtime engines for the Software 
and any Driver Interface Software that you include as part of or 
together with your Authorized Application, your copyright notice will be 
understood as protecting NI or its licensor's copyrights in the Software 
and will not be understood as meaning that you have any copyright in or 
with respect to any Software. (ii) You may not use NI's name, logo, or 
trademarks to market your Authorized Application without NI's express 
prior written permission. (iii) If you distribute to any third parties 
your Authorized Application with Driver Interface Software or any 
runtime engine for the Software, you must either pass through to your 
end users this Agreement or do so subject to your own license agreement 
that is substantially in accordance with this Agreement and at least as 
protective of NI as this Agreement. (iv) The Authorized Application must 
not consist of or include any malicious, deceptive, or unlawful 
programs. C. Fees. You may distribute, deploy, or otherwise make 
available Authorized Applications without paying additional fees to NI. 
Provided, however, if the Authorized Application was created utilizing 
any of the software identified in NI's Deployment Licenses listing web 
page, which is currently located at 
http://zone.ni.com/devzone/cda/tut/p/id/9561, or any similar successor 
listings, as such listings may be updated by NI from time to time, or 
such other software as NI may from time to time designate (any of the 
foregoing a "Designated Deployment License"), then you must, before 
distributing, deploying, or otherwise making available the Authorized 
Application for use on any other computer, either (i) verify that the 
recipient has a valid license to run the applicable Authorized 
Application on, or has a valid Deployment License for, each computer on 
which the Authorized Application will be used or (ii) obtain written 
distribution authorization from NI and, if required by NI, pay to NI a 
per copy fee for each Authorized Application distributed, deployed, or 
otherwise made available. In the case of any Driver Interface Software 
identified as being subject to the license verification or distribution 
authorization requirements stated above, if the Authorized Application 
utilizes, calls, or otherwise accesses any such Driver Interface 
Software, the Authorized Application will be deemed to have been created 
utilizing such Driver Interface Software for purposes of this Section. 
Unless otherwise specified by NI in writing, Designated Deployment 
Licenses are computer-based licenses and the home usage exception does 
not apply to Designated Deployment Licenses. 13. Patent and Trademark 
Notice. For patents covering National Instruments products, refer to the 
appropriate location: Help»Patents in the Software, the patents.txt file 
included with the Software (such as on the installation media on which 
the Software was distributed to you), or ni.com/patents. National 
Instruments, NI, ni.com, and LabVIEW are trademarks of National 
Instruments Corporation. Refer to ni.com/trademarks for more information 
about National Instruments trademarks. All other product and company 
names mentioned herein are or may be trademarks or trade names of their 
respective companies. 14. Limited Warranty. NI warrants, for your 
benefit alone, that for a period of ninety (90) days from the date the 
Software is shipped to you or, if downloaded, from the date the Software 
is first downloaded by you, (i) the Software will perform substantially 
in accordance with the documentation that accompanies the Software and 
(ii) the installation media on which NI provides the Software (if any) 
will be free from defects in materials and workmanship under normal use 
and service ("Limited Warranty"). Any replacement Software will be 
warranted for the remainder of the original warranty period or thirty 
(30) days, whichever is longer. Some jurisdictions do not allow 
exclusion of or limitation on duration of an express or implied warranty 
or limitation on any applicable statutory rights of a consumer, so the 
above limitations may not apply to you; in such event, such warranties 
are limited to the minimum warranty period allowed by applicable law. 
The Limited Warranty is void if failure of the Software has resulted 
from accident, abuse, misapplication, improper calibration by you, third 
party products (either hardware or software) used by you that are not 
intended by NI for use with the Software, utilization of an improper 
hardware or software key, or unauthorized maintenance of the Software. 
15. Customer Remedies. NI's sole obligation, and your sole remedy, with 
respect to the foregoing Limited Warranty will be to, at NI's option, 
repair or replace the Software or return the fees paid by you to NI for 
the Software license, in which event you must return or destroy all 
copies of the Software in accordance with NI's instructions and the 
license granted to you will terminate without liability on the part of 
NI by reason of such termination. NI's obligations as set forth in this 
Section are contingent on you providing NI with written notice of 
applicable defects during the warranty period. In addition, you must 
obtain a Return Material Authorization number from NI before returning 
the Software under warranty to NI, and you agree to pay any expenses for 
shipment to and from NI. 16. No Other Warranties. EXCEPT AS EXPRESSLY 
SET FORTH IN THIS AGREEMENT, NO WARRANTY, EITHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, IS 
MADE BY NI WITH RESPECT TO THE SOFTWARE OR USE OF THE SOFTWARE. NI DOES 
NOT MAKE ANY WARRANTY OR REPRESENTATION HEREUNDER WITH RESPECT TO ANY 
THIRD PARTY SOFTWARE, SOURCE CODE, OR SOFTWARE SERVICES. NI DOES NOT 
WARRANT, GUARANTEE, OR MAKE ANY REPRESENTATION THAT THE SOFTWARE, THE 
OPERATION OF THE SOFTWARE, OR ANY RELATED SOFTWARE SERVICES, SOURCE 
CODE, OR THIRD PARTY SOFTWARE WILL BE UNINTERRUPTED OR ERROR FREE AND 
DOES NOT WARRANTY, GUARANTEE, OR MAKE ANY REPRESENTATION REGARDING 
CORRECTNESS, ACCURACY, RELIABILITY, OR OTHERWISE. THERE ARE NO OTHER 
WARRANTIES THAT MAY ARISE FROM USAGE OF TRADE OR COURSE OF DEALING. NI 
DISCLAIMS ANY AND ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING IMPLIED WARRANTIES 
OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, AND 
NON-INFRINGEMENT, RELATING TO THE SOFTWARE AND ANY RELATED THIRD PARTY 
SOFTWARE, SOURCE CODE, AND SOFTWARE SERVICES. 17. Limitations Period. 
You hereby agree not to bring an action to enforce your remedies under 
the Limited Warranty or for breach of warranty more than one (1) year 
after the accrual of such cause of action. 18. Intellectual Property 
Liability. NI will, at its own expense, defend any claim brought against 
you by a third party resulting from your use of the Software, to the 
extent that such claim alleges that the Software infringes any patent, 
copyright, or trademark of such third party protected by the laws of the 
U.S.A., Canada, Mexico, Japan, Australia, Switzerland, Norway, or the 
European Union and provided that such claim does not arise from (i) your 
use of the Software in combination with equipment, devices, software, or 
code not made by NI; (ii) your use of the Software in a manner not in 
accordance with this Agreement or for a purpose not intended by NI; 
(iii) your failure to incorporate Software updates or upgrades provided 
by NI that would have avoided the alleged infringement; or (iv) any 
modification of the Software not made by NI. NI's obligations in this 
Section are further contingent on you notifying NI in writing promptly 
upon your obtaining notice of such impending claim and your fully 
cooperating with NI in preparing a defense. If you provide to NI the 
authority, assistance, and information NI needs to defend or settle such 
claim, NI will pay any final award of damages or settlement with respect 
to such claim and any expense you incur at NI's written request. NI will 
not be liable for a settlement made without its prior written consent. 
If the Software is held to be infringing of the rights stated above in 
this Section and the use of the Software is enjoined, NI will, or if NI 
believes the Software might be held to infringe a third party's 
intellectual property rights NI may, at its option, (i) procure for you 
the right to use the Software; (ii) replace or modify the Software with 
other software that does not infringe; or (iii) receive your return of 
the infringing Software and refund to you the license fee payment made 
by you to NI for the Software. TO THE MAXIMUM EXTENT PERMITTED BY 
APPLICABLE LAW, NI'S LIABILITY, THE LIABILITY OF ITS LICENSORS AND 
SUPPLIERS, AND THE LIABILITY OF ITS AND THEIR DIRECTORS, OFFICERS, 
EMPLOYEES, AND AGENTS, UNDER THIS SECTION AND REGARDLESS OF THE REASON 
FOR SUCH LIABILITY, WILL NOT EXCEED IN THE AGGREGATE $50,000 (U.S.). The 
foregoing states your sole remedy for, and NI's entire liability and 
responsibility for, infringement of any patent, trademark, copyright, or 
other intellectual or industrial property right relating to the 
Software. THIS LIMITED INDEMNITY IS IN LIEU OF ANY OTHER STATUTORY OR 
IMPLIED WARRANTY AGAINST INFRINGEMENT. THE FOREGOING OBLIGATIONS WILL 
NOT APPLY TO ANY THIRD PARTY SOFTWARE OR TO ANY THIRD PARTY PRODUCTS 
INCORPORATED IN OR OTHERWISE PROVIDED WITH THE SOFTWARE, AND YOU AGREE 
TO LOOK TO THE APPLICABLE THIRD PARTY MANUFACTURER WITH RESPECT TO ANY 
CLAIMS FOR INFRINGEMENT INVOLVING THIRD PARTY SOFTWARE OR THIRD PARTY 
PRODUCTS. 19. Limitation On Liability. TO THE MAXIMUM EXTENT PERMITTED 
BY APPLICABLE LAW, IN NO EVENT WILL NI OR ITS LICENSORS, DISTRIBUTORS, 
OR SUPPLIERS (INCLUDING NI'S AND THEIR DIRECTORS, OFFICERS, EMPLOYEES, 
AND AGENTS) BE LIABLE FOR ANY INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, PUNITIVE, 
EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OF ANY KIND, INCLUDING DAMAGES 
ARISING FROM LOST PROFITS, LOST SAVINGS, LOST BUSINESS OPPORTUNITY, 
BUSINESS INTERRUPTION, OR LOST OR CORRUPTED DATA OR SOFTWARE, EVEN IF NI 
OR ITS LICENSORS, DISTRIBUTORS, OR SUPPLIERS HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE 
POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES AND REGARDLESS OF WHETHER CAUSED OR 
CONTRIBUTED TO BY THE NEGLIGENCE OF NI OR OTHERS, AND, EXCEPT AS SET 
FORTH IN SECTION 18, IN NO EVENT WILL NI'S LIABILITIES UNDER THIS 
AGREEMENT, WHETHER UNDER CONTRACT LAW, TORT LAW, WARRANTY, OR OTHERWISE, 
EXCEED THE TOTAL AMOUNT RECEIVED BY NI FOR THE APPLICABLE SOFTWARE 
LICENSE. You acknowledge that the applicable fees and prices reflect 
this allocation of risk. To the extent the foregoing limitation of 
liability is not enforceable or fails of its essential purpose, except 
for liability for bodily injury or death caused by the Software in the 
form provided by NI or any liability not capable of being excluded by 
applicable law, the sole liability of NI to you under or in connection 
with this Agreement shall be limited to the greater of $50,000 (U.S.) or 
the license fee paid to NI for the Software. 20. HIGH-RISK USES AND YOUR 
RESPONSIBILITIES FOR YOUR APPLICATIONS A. NI PRODUCTS ARE NOT DESIGNED, 
MANUFACTURED, OR TESTED FOR USE IN HAZARDOUS ENVIRONMENTS OR ANY OTHER 
ENVIRONMENTS REQUIRING FAIL-SAFE PERFORMANCE, INCLUDING IN THE OPERATION 
OF NUCLEAR FACILITIES, AIRCRAFT NAVIGATION, AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL SYSTEMS; 
LIFE SAVING OR LIFE SUSTAINING SYSTEMS OR SUCH OTHER MEDICAL DEVICES; OR 
ANY OTHER APPLICATION IN WHICH THE FAILURE OF THE SOFTWARE COULD LEAD TO 
DEATH, PERSONAL INJURY, SEVERE PROPERTY DAMAGE, OR ENVIRONMENTAL HARM. 
YOU WILL DEFEND, INDEMNIFY, AND HOLD HARMLESS NI AND ITS DIRECTORS, 
OFFICERS, EMPLOYEES, AND AGENTS FROM ANY AND ALL CLAIMS, LOSSES, 
DAMAGES, ACTIONS, AND EXPENSES (INCLUDING REASONABLE ATTORNEYS' FEES) 
ARISING OUT OF YOUR USE OF THE SOFTWARE FOR HIGH-RISK USES, INCLUDING 
CLAIMS FOR PRODUCT LIABILITY, PERSONAL INJURY OR DEATH, OR DAMAGE TO 
PROPERTY, AND REGARDLESS OF WHETHER SUCH CLAIMS ARE FOUNDED IN WHOLE OR 
IN PART ON THE ALLEGED OR ACTUAL NEGLIGENCE OF NI. B. YOU ACKNOWLEDGE 
AND AGREE THAT YOU ARE RESPONSIBLE FOR TAKING STEPS TO PROTECT AGAINST 
PRODUCT AND SYSTEM FAILURES, INCLUDING PROVIDING BACK-UP OR SHUTDOWN 
MECHANISMS. BECAUSE EACH END-USER SYSTEM IS CUSTOMIZED AND DIFFERS FROM 
NI'S TESTING PLATFORMS AND BECAUSE YOU MAY USE NI PRODUCTS IN 
COMBINATION WITH OTHER PRODUCTS IN A MANNER NOT EVALUATED OR 
CONTEMPLATED BY NI, YOU ARE ULTIMATELY RESPONSIBLE FOR VERIFYING AND 
VALIDATING THE SUITABILITY OF NI PRODUCTS FOR YOUR INTENDED USE. YOU 
WILL DEFEND, INDEMNIFY, AND HOLD HARMLESS NI AND ITS DIRECTORS, 
OFFICERS, EMPLOYEES, AND AGENTS FROM ANY AND ALL CLAIMS, LOSSES, 
DAMAGES, ACTIONS, AND EXPENSES (INCLUDING REASONABLE ATTORNEYS' FEES) 
ARISING OUT OF YOUR AUTHORIZED APPLICATION OR YOUR INCORPORATION OF THE 
SOFTWARE IN YOUR SYSTEM OR APPLICATION; PROVIDED, HOWEVER, THAT YOUR 
CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATION OF INDEMNIFICATION SHALL NOT EXTEND TO THE 
PERCENTAGE OF THE CLAIMANT'S DAMAGES OR INJURIES OR THE SETTLEMENT 
AMOUNT ATTRIBUTABLE TO NI'S NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER FAULT OR TO STRICT 
LIABILITY IMPOSED UPON NI AS A MATTER OF LAW. 21. U.S. Government 
Rights. The Software is a "commercial item" developed exclusively at 
private expense, consisting of "commercial computer software" and 
"commercial computer software documentation" as such terms are defined 
or used in the applicable U.S. acquisition regulations. If you are an 
agency, department, or other entity of the United States Government, the 
Software is licensed hereunder (i) only as a commercial item and (ii) 
with only those rights as are granted to all other licensees pursuant to 
the terms and conditions of this Agreement. You agree not to use, 
duplicate, or disclose the Software in any way not expressly permitted 
by this Agreement. Nothing in this Agreement requires NI to produce or 
furnish technical data for or to you. Manufacturer is National 
Instruments Corporation or National Instruments Ireland Resources Ltd. 
22. Compliance A. You agree to make, upon reasonable notice, all 
applicable records available for review by NI during normal business 
hours so as to permit NI to verify your compliance with the terms and 
conditions of this Agreement. NI may, upon written notice, inspect your 
use of the Software during normal business hours to ensure your 
compliance with this Agreement. Further, if you are a business or other 
entity, you agree that upon the request of NI or its authorized 
representative you will promptly document and certify in writing to NI 
that your and your employees' use of the Software complies with the 
terms and conditions of this Agreement. If the results of any such 
inspection indicate the underpayment by you of applicable fees due and 
payable to NI, you must immediately pay such amounts to NI and reimburse 
NI for the cost of such inspection. B. You agree that the Software may 
collect and communicate certain software, hardware, and use information 
to NI or its service providers' servers for the purposes of (i) checking 
for and performing any updates; (ii) ensuring that you have complied and 
are complying with the terms and conditions in this Agreement, including 
your use of valid software key codes, hardware keys, or both; and (iii) 
NI's internal product development. The information collected and 
communicated does not include any proprietary application data. NI will 
not provide any of the information to any third party except as required 
by law or legal process or to enforce compliance with the terms in this 
Agreement, including your use of valid software key codes, hardware 
keys, or both. 23. General A. Governing Law; Venue If the Software is 
manufactured in the Republic of Ireland: This Agreement is governed by 
the laws of the Republic of Ireland, exclusive of any provisions of the 
United Nations Convention on the International Sale of Goods, and 
without regard to principles of conflicts of law. The non-exclusive 
venue for all actions under this Agreement will be in the courts located 
in Dublin, the Republic of Ireland, and the parties agree to submit to 
the jurisdiction of such courts. If the Software is not manufactured in 
the Republic of Ireland: This Agreement is governed by the laws of the 
State of Texas, U.S.A., exclusive of any provisions of the United 
Nations Convention on the International Sale of Goods, and without 
regard to principles of conflicts of law. The non-exclusive venue for 
all actions under this Agreement will be in the courts located in Travis 
County, Texas, U.S.A. and the parties agree to submit to the 
jurisdiction of such courts. If you are not sure where the Software is 
manufactured, please contact National Instruments Corporation, 11500 N. 
Mopac Expressway, Austin, Texas, U.S.A. 78759-3504 (Attention: Legal 
Department). B. This Agreement constitutes the complete agreement 
between you and NI regarding use of the Software and supersedes any oral 
or written proposals, prior agreements, purchase orders, or any other 
communication between you and NI relating to the subject matter of this 
Agreement. NI's applicable standard Terms and Conditions of Sale, the 
current version of which is set forth at 
http://www.ni.com/legal/termsofsale, will apply to any technical support 
services provided as part of Software Services and to any Training & 
Certification Services; provided, however, as set forth herein the 
provisions of this Agreement may apply and control with respect to any 
upgrades or updates or other Software that may be provided as part of or 
in connection with any such services. No delay or omission by NI to 
exercise any right or power it has under this Agreement will impair or 
be construed as a waiver of such right or power. Any waiver by NI of a 
term of this Agreement must be in writing by NI. The waiver by NI of any 
breach of any provision hereof will not be construed to be a waiver of 
any succeeding breach of that provision or of any breach of any other 
provision. No modification of this Agreement will be effective unless 
set forth in a writing signed by a duly authorized representative of you 
and NI. The word "including" as used in this Agreement will be 
understood as meaning "including without limitation". If you are unable 
to access the internet to view any of the web pages referred to in this 
Agreement, you may request the information from your local NI sales 
office. C. If any action is brought by either party to this Agreement 
against the other regarding the subject matter hereof, the prevailing 
party will be entitled to recover, in addition to any relief granted, 
reasonable attorneys' fees and court costs. D. If any provision of this 
Agreement is held invalid, the offending clause will be modified so as 
to make it enforceable, as modified, and the remainder of this Agreement 
will continue in full force and effect. E. Software is, and Third Party 
Software and Source Code may be, subject to control under the U.S. 
Export Administration Regulations (15 CFR Part 730 et. seq.), other 
applicable U.S. export control laws and regulations, and applicable 
global export control laws and regulations, including, for products 
exported from the European Union, the Council Regulation (EC) No. 
428/2009. You represent and warrant that you are not ineligible or 
otherwise restricted by US or applicable law to receive any copies of 
the Software, Third Party Software, or Source Code. NI reserves the 
right not to ship or permit downloading of the Software ordered if, at 
any time, NI believes that such shipment or downloading of such 
Software, Third Party Software, or Source Code may violate U.S. or other 
applicable export control laws. You agree that you will not export, 
re-export, or transfer any Software, Third Party Software, or Source 
Code in violation of any U.S. and applicable global export control laws 
and that you will not export, re-export, or transfer the Software, Third 
Party Software, or Source Code by any means to (i) any person or entity 
on OFAC's List of Specially Designated Nationals or on BIS's Denied 
Persons List, Entity List, or Unverified List, or any other applicable 
restricted party list or (ii) any prohibited destination, entity, or 
individual without the required export licenses or authorizations from 
the U.S. Government or other applicable export licensing authority. For 
text of the relevant legal materials, see 
http://www.ni.com/legal/export-compliance.htm. (c) 2001–2017 National 
Instruments. All Rights Reserved. 370406W-01 February 2017 

ADDENDUM A - Source Code License 1. "Source Code" means the NI-created 
human-readable computer code that NI provides with the Software, that is 
not password protected, and that is in the preferred form for modifying 
the code (whether graphical or text-based). Source Code does not include 
any Third Party Software. 2. This license permits you to use, modify, 
and distribute the Source Code on the conditions that A. you may 
distribute the Source Code, whether or not you have modified it, only i. 
for a non-commercial purpose and ii. under a license identical to this 
Source Code License; B. you may distribute object code derived from the 
Source Code, whether or not you have modified it, for any purpose; C. 
you maintain and do not minimize, block, or modify any titles, logos, 
trademarks, copyright, digital watermarks, disclaimers, or other notices 
that are included in the Source Code; D. YOU AGREE THAT THE COPYRIGHT 
HOLDERS (I) PROVIDE THE SOFTWARE "AS IS" WITH ALL FAULTS (KNOWN AND 
UNKNOWN) AND WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY, REPRESENTATION, OR OTHER GUARANTEE OF 
ANY KIND AND (II) DISCLAIM ALL WARRANTIES, REPRESENTATIONS, AND OTHER 
GUARANTEES RELATING TO YOUR USE, MODIFICATION, OR DISTRIBUTION OF THE 
SOURCE CODE, WHETHER EXPRESS, IMPLIED, OR STATUTORY, INCLUDING ANY 
WARRANTY OF TITLE, IMPLIED WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A 
PARTICULAR PURPOSE, AND NON-INFRINGEMENT, AND ANY IMPLIED WARRANTY 
ARISING OUT OF COURSE OF DEALING, PERFORMANCE, OR TRADE USAGE; E. YOU 
ASSUME ALL OF THE RISK AND LIABILITY ASSOCIATED WITH YOUR USE, 
MODIFICATION, OR DISTRIBUTION OF THE SOURCE CODE; F. YOU AGREE THAT THE 
COPYRIGHT HOLDERS ARE NOT LIABLE TO YOU FOR, AND YOU AGREE NOT TO ASSERT 
ANY CLAIM AGAINST ANY COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR ITS DIRECTORS, OFFICERS, 
EMPLOYEES, OR AGENTS FOR, ANY DAMAGE, LOSS, OR OTHER PREJUDICE OF ANY 
KIND, HOWEVER CAUSED, AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, INCLUDING 
CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE), THAT ARISES 
IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE, MODIFICATION, OR DISTRIBUTION OF THE SOURCE 
CODE, EVEN IF THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER WAS ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF ANY 
SUCH DAMAGE, LOSS, OR OTHER PREJUDICE, INCLUDING ANY DAMAGE, LOSS, OR 
OTHER PREJUDICE THAT (I) IS LOST PROFITS (WHETHER YOURS OR A THIRD 
PARTY'S); (II) ARISES OUT OF OR RELATES TO ANY TEMPORARY OR PERMANENT 
LOSS OF TANGIBLE PROPERTY (WHETHER REAL OR PERSONAL) OR INTANGIBLE 
PROPERTY (INCLUDING SOFTWARE AND DATA); OR (III) IS DIRECT, SPECIAL, 
INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, CONSEQUENTIAL, COLLATERAL, EXEMPLARY, PUNITIVE, OR 
ANY OTHER DAMAGE; and, G. you agree that these Sections 1-3 express the 
entire agreement between you and the copyright holders regarding your 
use, modification, and distribution of the Source Code. 3. The copyright 
holders reserve all of their rights. Except for the non-exclusive 
licenses expressly granted in Section 2, no rights or licenses are 
granted expressly, by implication, or otherwise. 

ADDENDUM B – Special License Types Evaluation License; Pre-Release 
Software If you have acquired an evaluation license, you may install and 
use the Software on one (1) computer in your workplace for internal 
evaluation purposes only and only for the limited period of the 
evaluation term. You may not distribute or transfer any applications you 
create with Software under an evaluation license. Any application 
created with Software acquired under an evaluation license is not an 
Authorized Application. You acknowledge and agree that the SOFTWARE IS 
EVALUATION ONLY AND MAY ALSO BE PRE-RELEASE SOFTWARE. AS SUCH, THE 
SOFTWARE MAY NOT BE FULLY FUNCTIONAL AND YOU ASSUME THE ENTIRE RISK AS 
TO THE RESULTS AND PERFORMANCE OF THE SOFTWARE. NI WILL NOT UPDATE THE 
SOFTWARE, NOR WILL NI SUPPORT THE SOFTWARE. Software provided under an 
evaluation license is provided without warranty OR OBLIGATION OF 
INDEMNITY ON NI. THE SOFTWARE MAY CONTAIN CODE THAT WILL, AFTER A 
CERTAIN TIME PERIOD, DEACTIVATE THE SOFTWARE AND RENDER THE SOFTWARE 
UNUSABLE, AND IT MAY DO SO WITHOUT WARNING. Upon such deactivation, this 
Agreement will be considered terminated. NI may in its sole discretion 
terminate the evaluation license at any time. If the Software consists 
of pre-release software and is also covered by a separate, written 
alpha/beta license (the "Beta Agreement") between you and NI, the terms 
and conditions of the Beta Agreement, which are incorporated herein by 
reference, will also apply to your use of the Software. In the event of 
a conflict between this Agreement and the Beta Agreement, the terms of 
the Beta Agreement will control. You agree to use reasonable efforts to 
provide feedback to NI regarding your use of the Software, including 
promptly reporting to NI errors or bugs that you might find. Any such 
feedback you disclose to NI, including any changes or suggested changes 
to NI's current or future products and services (collectively 
"Feedback"), will be received and treated by NI on a non-confidential 
and unrestricted basis, notwithstanding any restrictive or proprietary 
legends to the contrary accompanying or otherwise associated with the 
Feedback. You hereby grant to NI a worldwide, royalty-free, 
non-exclusive, perpetual, and irrevocable license to use, copy, and 
modify Feedback for any purpose, including incorporation or 
implementation of such Feedback into NI products or services, and to 
display, market, sublicense, and distribute Feedback as incorporated or 
embedded in any product or service distributed or offered by NI. The 
Feedback license set forth herein will survive expiration or termination 
of the Agreement. Compile-Only License (Measurement Studio) If you have 
acquired a Measurement Studio compile-only license, you must have also 
licensed a full version of Measurement Studio under a separate license 
with NI. The Measurement Studio compile-only license allows you to 
install the Measurement Studio Software on the number of computers in 
your workplace identified in the applicable documentation provided to 
you by NI or its authorized affiliate, including on a network device and 
run concurrently, provided that only your licensed applicable 
employee(s) may access or use the Measurement Studio Software on the 
network device and only up to the number of licenses specified in the 
documentation. You may only use the compile/build function of the 
Measurement Studio Software, and you may only perform that function on 
source code for your Authorized Application that references the 
Measurement Studio libraries. In no event may you use the Measurement 
Studio compile?only license for development, including writing code that 
creates a new instance of a class defined in a Measurement Studio 
library or that calls a static method of a class defined in the 
Measurement Studio library. The home usage exception is not available 
for Measurement Studio under a compile-only license. Measurement Studio 
under a compile-only license is not transferable. Driver Interface 
Software If the Software is or contains Driver Interface Software, you 
may use the Software for your internal development of Authorized 
Applications. If you are a business or other entity, you may make and 
install a reasonable number of copies of the Driver Interface Software, 
other than NI-VISA or NI-488.2, as may be reasonably required for your 
internal development of Authorized Applications. You may not make 
additional copies of NI-VISA and NI-488.2 except for backup or archival 
purposes as expressly permitted in the Agreement or as expressly 
permitted by NI in writing. If you received the Driver Interface 
Software from a third party with or as part of an Authorized 
Application, then you may only use the Driver Interface Software with 
such Authorized Application. Multiple Access License (NI-488.2 Software 
for GPIB-ENET) If you have acquired a multiple access license, you may 
install and use the NI-488.2 Software on any number of computers or 
storage devices in your workplace solely for the purpose of accessing 
Ethernet to GPIB controllers. The limitation against using multiple 
versions of Software made available by NI on installation media or by 
download does not apply to the NI-488.2 software. You may transfer the 
license to a third party in the same country in which you purchased the 
license, or within the European Union if you purchased the license in 
the European Union, provided that you notify NI in writing of such 
transfer, including the name and location of such third party; such 
third party accepts the terms and conditions of this Agreement; and 
after such transfer you do not retain any copies of the Software, 
including any upgrades and updates that you may have received, nor 
retain any of the written materials accompanying the Software. NI may, 
in its discretion, charge you a fee for the transfer. Concurrent Use 
License If you have acquired a concurrent use license, you may install 
the Software on any or all computers at the physical location to which 
NI initially delivered the Software ("Site"). The Software may be used 
by all of your employees at the Site; provided, however, in no event may 
the number of authorized users who are accessing or running any of the 
Software at the same time exceed the maximum number of licenses you have 
purchased. You agree that you will also use a NI-approved volume license 
manager and the license file provided by NI that controls end-user 
access to the Software to ensure compliance with the foregoing. There is 
no home use exception for a concurrent use license. Concurrent use 
licenses are not transferrable. Debug License If you have acquired a 
debug license, you must have licensed the applicable software components 
(identified below as "Software Components Required") under a separate 
named user license, computer based license, or VLP license with NI, in 
which case your applicable employee(s) may now, under the debug license, 
install such software components on one (1) additional target production 
computer for each debug license acquired and for debug purposes only or, 
in the case of a concurrent debug license, in accordance with the use 
restrictions applicable to concurrent licenses and for debug purposes 
only. Debug License: NI TestStand Software Components Required: NI 
TestStand runtime execution engine for executing your sequences and the 
complete NI TestStand sequence editor development environment; one (1) 
copy of LabVIEW and the applicable software toolkits; one (1) copy of 
LabWindows/CVI and the applicable software toolkits; one (1) copy of 
Measurement Studio and the applicable software toolkits Debug License; 
NI TestStand Semiconductor Module Software Components Required: NI 
TestStand Semiconductor Module; NI TestStand runtime execution engine 
for executing your sequences and the complete NI TestStand sequence 
editor development environment; one (1) copy of LabVIEW and the 
applicable software toolkits; one (1) copy of LabWindows/CVI and the 
applicable software toolkits; one (1) copy of Measurement Studio and the 
applicable software toolkits Debug License: LabVIEW Software Components 
Required: one (1) copy of LabVIEW and the applicable software toolkits 
Debug License: LabWindows/CVI Software Components Required: one (1) copy 
of LabWindows/CVI and applicable software toolkits Debug License: 
Measurement Studio Software Components Required: one (1) copy of 
Measurement Studio and the applicable software toolkits Debug License: 
For each of the following software or any other software designated by 
NI as being software with respect to which NI offers a debug license, 
you must acquire a copy of the software for which the debug software was 
developed (for example, one copy of NI Switch Executive for the debug 
license for NI Switch Executive). NI Switch Executive LabVIEW Mobile 
Module LabVIEW Touch Panel Module LabVIEW Real-Time Module 
LabWindows/CVI Real-Time Module LabVIEW FPGA Module LabVIEW Control 
Design and Simulation Module LabVIEW Vision Development Module LabVIEW 
Statechart Module LabVIEW DSC Module LabVIEW DSP Module If you licensed 
the applicable software components under a license other than a 
concurrent use license, then each of the applicable components must be 
used on the same target production computer. In no event may you use 
components subject to a debug license for developing new programs (e.g., 
test sequences/modules, virtual instruments). Further, if you acquire 
any upgrade to the applicable software, your existing debug license 
cannot be used with such upgrade. Rather, you must acquire a separate, 
"upgraded" debug license from NI for use with such upgrade. There is no 
home usage exception for debug licenses. With the exception of 
concurrent debug licenses, you may transfer the debug license to a third 
party in the same country in which you purchased the license or within 
the European Union if you purchased the license in the European Union, 
provided that you notify NI in writing of such transfer, including the 
name and location of such third party; such third party accepts the 
terms and conditions of this Agreement; and after such transfer you do 
not retain any copies of the Software, including any upgrades and 
updates that you may have received, nor retain any of the written 
materials accompanying the Software. NI may, in its discretion, charge 
you a fee for the transfer of the license. 

ADDENDUM C - Volume License Program Terms Volume License Program 
("VLP"). The VLP is a program to assist customers in managing their 
licenses. The following terms apply to the VLP. 1. The quote you 
obtained from NI or its authorized affiliate regarding the VLP and the 
VLP Startup Kit ("VLP Documentation") is incorporated into this 
Agreement. In the event of a conflict between the terms and conditions 
of this Agreement and the VLP Documentation, the terms and conditions of 
this Agreement will control. 2. Term. The VLP will be effective the date 
that NI sends the VLP Startup Kit to you ("VLP Effective Date"). The 
initial term of the VLP will start on the VLP Effective Date and 
continue for a period of one (1) year (the "Initial VLP Term"). You may 
renew the VLP for additional one (1) year periods (the Initial VLP Term 
and each such renewal term each referred to herein as a "VLP Term"). 3. 
Software under the VLP may be used by your employees only on those 
computers located at the physical location to which NI delivers the 
Software unless otherwise specified in the VLP Documentation (the 
"Site"). Your use of the Software under the VLP will, at all times 
during the VLP Term and thereafter, be subject to all terms and 
conditions set forth in the Agreement regarding the specific type of 
license you have acquired under the VLP (i.e. named user, 
computer-based, or concurrent). 4. You must acquire and maintain during 
the VLP Term the Software Services for each individual Software license 
identified in the VLP Documentation and for which NI makes such Software 
Services available. Software Services will be described in VLP 
Documentation. NI reserves the right to restrict Software Service to the 
then most current version of the Software that is commercially 
available. You understand that NI may not make available Software 
Service for all Software available under the VLP. Unless otherwise 
agreed to by NI in writing, you must maintain during the VLP Term a 
minimum of five (5) licenses to a version of a single NI software 
product that is considered by NI to be a development version. 5. You 
must designate an individual in your organization who is responsible for 
distributing and overseeing the installation and use of the Software, 
including use of any master installation media and any approved volume 
license manager, ("Software Administrator") for each Site. You must 
promptly notify NI in writing of any changes to a Software 
Administrator. 6. NI will deliver the master installation for the 
Software and, if provided for in the applicable written quotation from 
NI or its authorized affiliate, make available NI's volume license 
manager to the Software Administrator(s) for internal installation and 
use by your employees. Software documentation is provided in electronic 
form only and comes with the master installation for the Software. 7. 
You are responsible for ensuring that an Approved Volume License 
Manager, together with the most current license file provided by NI that 
controls end-user access to the Software (to the extent NI has made the 
Software compatible with an Approved Volume License Manager) is in use 
at all times, during the term of the VLP and thereafter, with the 
Software. An "Approved Volume License Manager" means NI's computer 
software for controlling end user access to the Software and that 
generates applicable usage compliance information ("NI VLM"); FLEXnet or 
FLEXlm software; or any other third party software approved in writing 
by NI for controlling end user access to the Software. If the Approved 
Volume License Manager is the NI VLM or if NI makes documentation 
available for the applicable Approved Volume License Manager, such 
Approved Volume License Manager must be installed and used in accordance 
with the documentation provided by NI. 8. If you have existing 
computer-based or named user licenses for the Software that are to be 
covered by the VLP, you must notify NI in writing of the product, 
platform, and serial number information for each such license. Each such 
license and the individual serial number for each license will, as of 
the VLP Effective Date, no longer be in effect and will be superseded by 
the licenses within the VLP, which will have a single, common serial 
number. 9. Concurrent Use License. If you have obtained a concurrent use 
license under the VLP, you will be bound by the terms for concurrent use 
licenses. However, the definition of "Site" will also include all of 
your physical locations located within the same country as the Site. In 
addition, (i) if your Site is located in a member of the North American 
Free Trade Agreement, then all of your physical locations within a 
member of the North American Free Trade Agreement will be considered in 
the same country; (ii) if your Site is located in South America, then 
all of your physical locations within South America will be considered 
in the same country; (iii) if your Site is located in Iceland, Norway, 
Switzerland, Africa or any member country of the European Union, then 
any of your physical locations within the foregoing countries will be 
considered in the same country; and (iv) if your Site is located in 
Asia, then all of your physical locations in Asia will be considered 
located in the same country. If you have purchased a global concurrent 
license, then all of your locations worldwide will be considered in the 
same country as the Site. 10. You acknowledge and agree that in no event 
may your use of the Software under the VLP exceed the maximum total 
number of licenses set forth in the VLP Documentation in addition to any 
licenses that may be added to the VLP after the VLP Effective Date and 
any licenses available through the "Overdraft" feature. You agree to pay 
for licenses accessed through the Overdraft feature. 11. Activity 
Compliance Logs. You are required to provide an activity compliance log 
("Activity Compliance Log") for each Site to NI promptly, but in no 
event no later than fifteen (15) days following the annual anniversary 
of the VLP Effective Date and following the VLP termination date. The 
Activity Compliance Log must be in a format acceptable to NI. 12. 
Renewals. If you desire to renew the VLP, you must provide a current 
Activity Compliance Log to NI at least sixty (60) days before the end of 
the then current VLP Term. NI or its authorized affiliate will then 
provide you with a quote for Software Services, any fees for additional 
VLP licenses added during the VLP Term, including through the 
"Overdraft" feature, that are applicable ("Additional VLP Fees"), and 
any fees for new VLP licenses that you request for the renewal VLP Term 
(the "VLP Renewal Fees"). You must promptly notify NI if the information 
in the Activity Compliance Log regarding the number of VLP licenses in 
use changes following your submission, and NI reserves the right to 
revise the VLP Renewal Fees to reflect any additional VLP licenses used 
and not reflected in the applicable Activity Compliance Log that you 
provided to NI at the time you renewed. IF, PRIOR TO THE END OF THE THEN 
CURRENT VLP TERM, YOU DO NOT ISSUE A PURCHASE ORDER FOR THE SOFTWARE 
SERVICES AND ANY ADDITIONAL VLP FEES THAT ARE DUE, (I) THE VLP WILL 
AUTOMATICALLY TERMINATE AT THE END OF THE CURRENT VLP TERM AND (II) ALL 
SOFTWARE SERVICES FOR THE VLP WILL AUTOMATICALLY AND IMMEDIATELY 
TERMINATE AT THE END OF THE THEN CURRENT VLP TERM. 13. Purchase Orders; 
Invoices. You must submit purchase orders to NI or its authorized 
affiliate as follows. i. for initial activation of the VLP: in the 
amount specified in the applicable written quotation from NI or its 
authorized affiliate for initial activation of the VLP license and the 
initial annual user fee for Software Services within the time-frame 
specified in the quote provided to you ii. for each renewal term: in the 
amount of VLP Renewal Fees and any Additional VLP Fees prior to the end 
of the then current VLP Term 14. Software Services are charged on an 
annual basis. Additional VLP Fees will be pro-rated on a quarterly 
basis, based on the quarter of the VLP Term in which the Software under 
such VLP license was first used or such shorter basis as NI may 
designate. 15. THE SOFTWARE AND THE APPROVED VOLUME LICENSE MANAGER MAY 
CONTAIN CODE THAT WILL, FOLLOWING TERMINATION OF THE VLP, DEACTIVATE 
YOUR ABILITY TO USE THE SOFTWARE UNDER THE VLP. NI MAY ATTEMPT TO 
PROVIDE YOU WITH AN UPDATED LICENSE FILE, BUT IT IS YOUR RESPONSIBILITY 
TO OBTAIN SUCH LICENSE FILE FROM NI AND TO INSTALL AND USE THE LICENSE 
FILE AS SOON AS POSSIBLE AFTER DELIVERY OF SUCH LICENSE FILE, BUT IN NO 
EVENT NO LATER THAN SIXTY (60) DAYS AFTER THE TERMINATION OF THE VLP. 
Upon termination of the VLP, you may continue to use the VLP licenses in 
effect and for which you have paid the required fees to NI or its 
authorized affiliate prior to the date of termination (the "Surviving 
VLP Licenses"), provided that all such use is conducted with an Approved 
Volume License Manager and otherwise pursuant to the terms and 
conditions of the Agreement. IN NO EVENT MAY YOU INCREASE THE NUMBER OF 
THE SURVIVING VLP LICENSES FOLLOWING THE TERMINATION OF THE VLP. ANY 
REACTIVATION OF THE VLP FOLLOWING ITS TERMINATION WILL BE AT THE SOLE 
DISCRETION OF NI AND MAY BE SUBJECT TO REACTIVATION FEES, AND THE VLP 
EFFECTIVE DATE THEREAFTER WILL BE THE DATE THAT THE VLP IS REACTIVATED 
BY NI. 16. You may obtain individual serial numbers for any of the VLP 
licenses or Surviving VLP Licenses. There may be a charge for 
conversion. No more than four (4) such conversions may occur per 
calendar year. 17. Software under a VLP license or a Surviving VLP 
License is non-transferable and you may not, without the prior written 
consent of NI or its authorized affiliate, distribute or otherwise 
provide the Software to any third party or to any of your sites or 
facilities not expressly identified in the applicable documents from NI. 

ADDENDUM D - Enterprise Program Terms Enterprise Program ("EP"). The 
following terms apply to the EP. 1. NI or its authorized affiliate and 
you will enter into NI Enterprise Program documentation ("EP 
Documentation") that, among other things, identifies the Software items 
that are covered under the EP; the types and maximum number of your 
licenses for such Software during the term of the EP; the types and 
maximum number of any licenses that you will obtain on expiration of the 
EP term; any of your pre-existing licenses that will be converted to 
licenses under your EP ("EP Pre-Existing Licenses") and any Software 
Services that are included. The EP Documentation is incorporated into 
this Agreement; provided, however, if there is a conflict between the 
terms and conditions of this Agreement and the EP Documentation, the 
terms and conditions of this Agreement will prevail and control. 2. 
Term. The EP will be effective on the date set forth in the EP 
Documentation or, if not specified, the date that the EP Documentation 
is signed by NI or its authorized affiliate and sent to you (the "EP 
Effective Date"). The EP will continue for such term as set forth in the 
EP Documentation or, if not specified, for three years after the EP 
Effective Date ("EP Term"). 3. You must designate an individual in your 
organization who is responsible for distributing and overseeing the 
installation and use of the Software, including use of any master 
installation media and any approved volume license manager, ("Software 
Administrator") for each EP Location. You must promptly notify NI in 
writing of any changes to a Software Administrator. 4. Software may be 
used under the EP (i) solely in accordance with the terms and conditions 
set forth in this Agreement regarding the specific type of license 
applicable to such license type acquired under the EP; (ii) solely at, 
and on computers located at, the locations designated in the EP 
Documentation ("EP Locations"); and (iii) solely during the EP Term. You 
acknowledge and agree that (i) in no event may your use of the Software 
under the EP exceed the maximum total number of licenses set forth in 
the EP Documentation and (ii) no NI software (including any copies of 
the Software) other than the copies of the Software expressly identified 
in the EP Documentation may be used by you under the EP. 5. You must 
use, at all times, an Approved Volume License Manager with the most 
current license file provided to you by NI that controls end-user access 
to the Software licensed pursuant to the EP. An "Approved Volume License 
Manager" means NI's computer software for controlling end user access to 
the Software and that generates applicable usage compliance information 
("NI VLM"); FLEXnet or FLEXlm software; or any other third party 
software approved in writing by NI for controlling end user access to 
the Software. If the Approved Volume License Manager is the NI VLM or if 
NI makes documentation available for the applicable Approved Volume 
License Manager, such Approved Volume License Manager must be installed 
and used in accordance with the documentation provided by NI. 6. 
Training & Certification Services. If the services to be provided under 
your EP include software training classes or "certification preparation" 
courses and certification testing services for NI software ("Training & 
Certification Services"), you may use available training credits during 
the EP Term for your employees to attend applicable training classes 
regarding the use of the Software or to receive applicable 
"certification preparation" courses and certification testing services 
from NI, as specified in the EP Documentation. Training & Certification 
Services will be provided in accordance with NI's then-current standard 
policies for software training and certification. Training credits may 
not be used for customized training that would constitute a "defense 
service" as defined by International Traffic in Arms Regulations 22 CFR 
120.9. Training credits have no cash value and any unused training 
credits will expire upon termination or expiration of your EP or such 
other term set forth in the EP Documentation. 7. Software Services. If 
the services to be provided under the EP include Software Services, then 
NI will provide (i) your Software Administrator a master copy of all 
upgrades after the applicable commercial release date and (ii) the 
number of your users designated in the EP Documentation with access to 
NI's application engineers for issues involving the installation and use 
of the Software and with access to NI's customer on-line technical 
support system. All services will be provided in accordance with NI's 
then current standard software maintenance and support policies. NI 
reserves the right to restrict Software Services to the then most 
current version of the Software that is commercially available. You 
understand that NI may not make available Software Services for all 
Software available under the EP. 8. No Hardware or Hardware Services. 
You acknowledge and agree that no hardware or hardware-related services 
are being provided or otherwise made available by NI under the EP. 9. 
Annual Management Review; Reports A. Upon such periodic basis as set 
forth in the EP Documentation (but at least annually), your 
representatives must meet with NI's representatives to discuss the EP 
and your use of the EP, including evaluating usage of the NI Software 
and any training credits under the EP and determining the adequacy of 
licensing levels and number of EP Locations under the EP. B. Thirty (30) 
days prior to the meeting referenced in sub-section A above or upon such 
other reasonable basis as NI may request, you must provide NI with (i) 
an activity compliance log identifying requests for permission to use 
the Software in a format acceptable to NI ("Activity Compliance Logs") 
for each of the EP Locations and (ii) a usage log showing check-outs and 
check-ins of the Software ("Usage Log") as generated by the Approved 
Volume License Manager for the Software at the EP Locations. 10. EP 
Fees. The fees that will be charged to you in connection with the EP are 
set forth in the EP Documentation. Unless set forth otherwise in the EP 
Documentation, all amounts to be paid by you under the EP will be in 
U.S. dollars. Amounts set forth in the EP Documentation do not include 
applicable taxes or import/export duties, and all taxes and other duties 
relating to any deliverables provided by NI under the EP will be your 
responsibility and be borne by you. If you acquire a business that has 
current NI software licenses that you wish to include in the EP, then 
the fees that may be charged to you in connection with the EP may be 
increased. 11. Termination A. Either NI or you may in each's discretion 
terminate the EP upon written notice to the other party, if such other 
party is in material breach of any of its obligations under these 
Enterprise Program Terms and such breach has not been cured to the 
reasonable satisfaction of the non-breaching party within thirty (30) 
days of receiving written notice of such breach, provided that if the 
breach is not capable of cure the EP Term will terminate immediately. 
B. Effect of EP Expiration or Termination. Upon expiration or 
termination of the EP, you must stop immediately all use of the Software 
under the EP and you must destroy all copies of the Software, provided 
however that you must deliver the Software and all copies to NI if NI 
has so demanded prior to such destruction. Notwithstanding the 
foregoing, with respect to any licenses from NI for Software covered by 
the EP that were in effect before the EP Effective Date and that are 
identified as Pre-Existing NI Software in the EP Documentation ("EP 
Pre-Existing Software"), if the EP is terminated by NI based on a breach 
only of the terms set forth in these Enterprise Program Terms and not 
based on a failure to comply with any other term of the Agreement, you 
may use such number of copies of EP Pre-Existing Software as may be 
designated in the EP Documentation for the post-EP Term, solely at the 
EP Locations, and pursuant to, and solely in accordance with, the 
software license agreements that accompany the software. With respect to 
any copies of the EP Pre-Existing Software that are designated in the EP 
Documentation for post-EP Term use and that were either the most current 
version or the immediately prior version of the Software as of the EP 
Effective Date, provided that the EP Term was not terminated by NI, you 
may elect to upgrade such copies to the current version of the 
applicable Software as of the effective date of termination or 
expiration of the EP Term for use by you solely in accordance with this 
Section. C. Your right to use EP Pre-Existing Software after the EP Term 
is contingent on your providing NI with the Activity Compliance Logs and 
Usage Logs within thirty (30) days of the expiration or termination of 
the EP Term and immediately paying to NI all amounts due but not paid as 
of the expiration or termination of the EP Term. D. THE SOFTWARE AND THE 
APPROVED VOLUME LICENSE MANAGER MAY CONTAIN CODE THAT WILL, FOLLOWING 
EXPIRATION OR TERMINATION OF THE EP TERM, DEACTIVATE YOUR ABILITY TO USE 
THE SOFTWARE UNDER THE EP. YOU ACKNOWLEDGE AND AGREE THAT THE SOFTWARE 
MAY BE AUTOMATICALLY DEACTIVATED OR RENDERED UNUSABLE WITHOUT WARNING 
UPON THE EXPIRATION OR TERMINATION OF THE EP. IT IS YOUR RESPONSIBILITY 
TO OBTAIN ANY NECESSARY LICENSE FILES FROM NI TO ENABLE ANY PERMITTED 
POST-EP TERM USE OF EP PRE-EXISTING SOFTWARE AS DESIGNATED IN THE EP 
DOCUMENTATION. YOU MUST INSTALL AND USE THE LICENSE FILE AS SOON AS 
POSSIBLE AFTER DELIVERY OF SUCH LICENSE FILE BY NI, BUT IN NO EVENT NO 
LATER THAN SIXTY (60) DAYS AFTER THE TERMINATION OF THE EP TERM. 12. 
Licenses under the EP are non-transferable and you may not, without the 
prior written consent of NI or its authorized affiliate, distribute or 
otherwise provide the Software to any third party or to any of your 
sites or facilities other than EP Locations. 13. Confidentiality. The 
terms of your EP Documentation; any proposals or other documents 
submitted by NI or its authorized affiliate in connection with your EP 
(including all pricing and fees); and any information about NI product 
development efforts provided in connection with your EP are considered 
the confidential information of NI. You must not disclose any NI 
confidential information to any third party. 

ADDENDUM E - Academic License Terms 1. Software under any of the 
academic license types may not be used for commercial or industrial 
purposes. Only software licenses subject to the academic research terms 
may be used for research purposes. 2. Authorized Applications developed 
using Software subject to an academic license may not be distributed for 
commercial purposes and must be distributed with a prohibition against 
redistribution for commercial purposes. 3. Academic licenses are 
nontransferable. 4. An "Academic Institution" is a degree-granting 
educational institution. For purposes of Student Edition licenses, an 
Academic Institution may also be an online education course in which the 
teacher is recommending or requiring the use of the Software and that 
has been approved by NI. 5. Student Edition License. If the Software is 
a student edition (including Software acquired by you from your Academic 
Institution pursuant to its student install option license), you must be 
a student enrolled in or taking continuing education classes or an 
instructor teaching at an Academic Institution in order to use the 
Software. If you are a student, you may use the Software for your 
personal education purposes and not for any other purpose. If you are an 
instructor, you may use the Software for your preparation for classroom 
or lab coursework and not for any other purpose, such as academic 
research or classroom instruction regarding the use of the Software. You 
may install the Software on up to three (3) physical computers; 
provided, however, only you may use or otherwise run the Software and 
the Software may only be launched on one computer at a time. You may not 
install any of the Software on a network device from which the Software 
may be accessed and used by anyone other than you. There is no home 
usage exception for student edition licenses. You hereby understand and 
agree that your license will automatically expire upon the conclusion or 
termination of your enrollment in the Academic Institution, if you are a 
student, or at such time as you stop being an instructor, if you are an 
instructor. Upon any such expiration, you must promptly uninstall all 
copies of the Software. 6. Primary and Secondary School License. If you 
have acquired a primary and secondary school license, you may use the 
Software solely for educational purposes in your primary and secondary 
school. Primary and secondary schools are defined as levels K–12 and 
International Standard Classification of Education (ISCED) levels 0–3. 
You may install the Software on no more than the number of your school's 
computers specified by NI or its authorized affiliate in writing in the 
applicable quote. The foregoing rights apply to a single school or 
campus (as specified by NI or its authorized affiliate in writing in the 
applicable quote) and do not extend to an entire school district. 7. 
Teaching License. If you have acquired an academic teaching license, you 
may use the Software solely for instructional purposes in your 
department, college, or on a specific university campus, as applicable, 
of an Academic Institution. A use will be considered as one for 
"instructional purposes" only if such use meets either of the following 
criteria: (i) a common exam is given to students at the end of a 
semester or other academic period and the exam relates (in whole or 
part) to the students' use of the Software or (ii) homework or similar 
projects requiring the use of the Software are used for grading in lieu 
of an exam. You may install the Software on no more than the number of 
your Academic Institution's computers located within the applicable 
department, college, or specific university campus as specified by NI or 
its authorized affiliate in writing in the applicable quote. Without 
limiting the foregoing, any use of the Software by any person who is not 
an instructor at your Academic Institution is prohibited. 8. Research 
License. If you have acquired an academic research license, you may use 
the Software solely for academic research at an Academic Institution. 
You may install the Software on no more than the number of your 
computers located within the applicable department, college, or specific 
university campus as specified by NI or its authorized affiliate in 
writing in the applicable quote. 9. Combined teaching and research 
licenses are subject to the terms and conditions of both teaching 
licenses and research licenses. 10. Student Install Option. If you are 
an Academic Institution and have acquired student install option 
licenses, NI will deliver to you the master installation for the 
applicable student edition Software. You may make the student edition 
Software available to no more than the number of students specified by 
NI or its authorized affiliate in writing in the applicable quote, and 
each student must be currently enrolled at the applicable department, 
college, or specific university campus of your Academic Institution 
specified in writing in the applicable quote. 

ADDENDUM F – Product-Specific Provisions TestStand Development System 
License, TestStand Custom Sequence Editor License If you have acquired a 
computer-based NI TestStand Development System License or NI TestStand 
Custom Sequence Editor License, you may not remotely access the 
Software. If you have acquired a named user NI TestStand Development 
System License or NI TestStand Custom Sequence Editor License, only the 
then-current Named User may remotely access the Software. Measurement 
Studio Any application created with Measurement Studio Software that 
uses any Measurement Studio controls in a "design time" context is not 
an Authorized Application. 

